# sketch/

The ```sketch/``` folder is a PlatformIO project which provides a build
environment for the compilation of all firmware.
The standard PlatformIO build arrangement is tweaked in the following
ways.

1. The ```sketch/src/``` folder is replaced with a symbolic link to a
   folder which contains the specific firmware source files that should
   be compiled by a build.
   
2. The ```platformio.ini``` configuration is elaborated to execute the
   __get-config__ script before every build by the addition of the
   line:
   ```
   build_flags = ! utils/get-config src *.config > src/build.h
   ```

   The __get-config__ script generates a set of #define directives by
   harvesting name value pairs from configuration files that are
   distributed within the ```src``` and ```*.config``` directory
   hierarchies and stores these in ```src/build.h```.
   A configuration file in this context is one whose name is formed
   entirely of uppercase characters and underscore: the file name
   is used as the name of the #define and the file content is used
   as the #define value.
   
   The header file generated by the call to __get-config__ can be
   included in the firmware source code and so make the values
   recovered available at compile time.
   
This tweaking allows the firmware code to respond automatically to
changes in its its implementation context without the need for manual
editing before each build.

Here's a simple example.
Let's assume that we have some project that implements a module called 'FOO'
which has both hardware and firmware elements.
Hardware and firmware are both available in multiple versions and some firmware
versions are only suitable for some hardware versions.
Firmware is implemented in the program ```main.cpp```.
We organise our filesystem like this.
```
pdjr/
├── MANUFACTURER_NAME
├── STOP
├── sketch/
│   ├── lib/
│   ├── src -> ../FOO/hardware/1.0/firmware-1.0/
│   ├── test/
│   ├── utils/
│   └── README.md
└── FOO/
    ├── MODULE_NAME
    ├── firmware
    │   ├── 1.0
    │   │   ├── main.cpp
    │   │   └── FIRMWARE_VERSION
    │   └── 2.0
    │       ├── main.cpp
    │       └── FIRMWARE_VERSION
    └── hardware
        ├── 1.0
        │   ├── HARWARE_VERSION
        │   ├── firmware-1.0 -> ../../firmware/1.0/
        │   └── kicad/
        └── 2.0
            ├── HARWARE_VERSION
            ├── firmware-1.0 -> ../../firmware/1.0/
            ├── firmware-2.0 -> ../../firmware/2.0/
            └── kicad/
```
Note the use of symbolic links in the hardware version folders which
capture the semantics of which firmware versions run on the hardware
version in question.

Note also that the PlatformIO project ```src/``` folder is a symbolic
link to the required firmware folder in the context of the harware
version to which our required build relates.

When we execute a PlatformIO build in ```sketch/``` our build system
will begin by executing __get-config__ which will itself begin by
processing the ```src``` folder, climbing back up the directory
hierarchy, harvesting configuration values from the files
FIRMWARE\_VERSION, HARDWARE\_VERSION, MODULE\_NAME and
MANUFACTURER\_NAME and saving these as #define declarations to ```src/build.h```.

The process will stop climbing directories as soon as it reaches one
containing a file called ```STOP```.

From a terminal in the ```sketch``` folder you can review the values
that will be recovered by this process as it traverses the ```src/```
hierarchy by executing the ```get-config``` script directly.
For example:
```
$> utils/get-config
#define FIRMWARE_VERSION "1.0"
#define HARDWARE_VERSION "1.0"
#define MANUFACTURER_NAME "PDJR.EU"
#define MODULE_NAME "FOO MODULE"
$>
```

